---
permalink: /
layout: archive
excerpt: "About me"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
classes: wide
---
I am Deepak Udayakumar, a passionate Data Science graduate student at <b>Northeastern University</b>. With a strong background in Machine learning and Deep learning, acquired through relevant coursework such as DS 5110: Data Management and Processing, DS 5220: Supervised Machine Learning, CS 6220: Data Mining Techniques, CS 5800: Algorithms, CS 7150: Deep Learning, I strive to create intelligent, data-driven solutions. Explore my projects and experience to see how I can make a positive impact through data.

I had the advantage of acquiring extensive industrial experience as a <b>Data Engineer</b> at [LTIMindtree](https://www.ltimindtree.com/), for 1.5 years where I showcased my proficiency in configuring data pipelines, utilizing cutting-edge technologies, and optimizing workflows. I demonstrated my ability to collaborate with clients, analyze their data needs, and develop robust solutions to meet their requirements, before embarking on my studies at Northeastern University. As a Data Engineer , I played a crucial role in configuring <b>data pipelines</b> to enable efficient data processing and analysis. Leveraging my expertise in <b>Python, BigQuery, and Apache Airflow</b>, I built, debugged, scheduled, and monitored jobs using <b>DAGs</b>. By harnessing the power of <b>Google Cloud Platform's</b> Big Data products, including BigQuery, Cloud Dataproc, Google Cloud Storage, and Composer, I effectively tracked and managed workflows on Airflow in the cloud.

Taking initiative, I designed and implemented data pipelines that facilitated the seamless flow of data from diverse sources into <b>BigQuery</b>. This optimization of the data pipeline infrastructure resulted in enhanced productivity and the generation of valuable insights. Collaborating with clients, I assessed their data requirements, devised <b>data cleaning</b> and modification processes, and executed comprehensive development of BigQuery Views. Through meticulous data cleaning, strategic aggregations, and necessary transformations, I ensured high data quality, enabling the generation of reliable and meaningful insights.

During my undergraduate studies in Electronics and Communication Engineering at [Nitte Meenakshi Institute of Technology](nmit.ac.in), I excelled academically, graduating in the <b>top 15%</b> of my class in 2021. My passion for programming and electronics drove me to explore the intersection of these fields, and I strategically selected courses and projects that allowed me to delve into <b>machine learning, Python programming, image processing</b>. From developing a signature authentication system to creating an ATM simulation model and implementing an automatic streetlight controller, my undergraduate journey was a testament to my strong technical skills and dedication to practical applications of technology.

In addition to my academic pursuits, I am a cricket player and have had the honor of representing my university cricket team. Cricket has not only instilled in me valuable qualities such as <b>teamwork</b>, <b>leadership</b>, and <b>perseverance</b>, but it has also provided me with a platform to apply these skills in a competitive setting. Furthermore, I have a deep passion for photography and enjoy capturing moments while exploring new places. This creative outlet allows me to see the world from unique perspectives and encourages me to embrace the beauty and diversity around me.

In the future, I am thrilled to channel my diverse skill set and unwavering passion for data science towards driving innovation and creating a meaningful impact. With a strong foundation in machine learning and experience as a Data Engineer, I offer a well-rounded skill set that encompasses technical expertise and real-world problem-solving. Beyond academis, my dedication to cricket and photography has cultivated qualities such as teamwork, leadership, creativity, and attention to detail, which further enrich my capabilities. Together, let's embark on a journey of leveraging data science to push boundaries, inspire innovation, and make a lasting positive difference.
